README.md, before:

[![Angular Logo](https://www.vectorlogo.zone/logos/angular/angular-icon.svg)](https://angular.io/) [![Electron Logo](https://www.vectorlogo.zone/logos/electronjs/electronjs-icon.svg)](https://electronjs.org/)

![Maintained][maintained-badge]
[![Make a pull request][prs-badge]][prs]
[![License][license-badge]](LICENSE.md)

[![Linux Build][linux-build-badge]][linux-build]
[![MacOS Build][macos-build-badge]][macos-build]
[![Windows Build][windows-build-badge]][windows-build]

[![Watch on GitHub][github-watch-badge]][github-watch]
[![Star on GitHub][github-star-badge]][github-star]
[![Tweet][twitter-badge]][twitter]

# Introduction

Bootstrap and package your project with Angular 12 and Electron 15 (Typescript + SASS + Hot Reload) for creating Desktop applications.

Currently runs with:

- Angular v12.1.2
- Electron v15.13.1

With this sample, you can:

- Run your app in a local development environment with Electron & Hot reload
- Run your app in a production environment
- Package your app into an executable file for Linux, Windows & Mac

/!\ Hot reload only pertains to the renderer process. The main electron process is not able to be hot reloaded, only restarted.

/!\ Angular CLI & Electron Builder needs Node 14 or later to work correctly.

## Getting Started

*Clone this repository locally:*

``` bash
git clone https://github.com/maximegris/angular-electron.git
```

*Install dependencies with npm (used by Electron renderer process):*

``` bash
npm install
```

There is an issue with `yarn` and `node_modules` when the application is built by the packager. Please use `npm` as dependencies manager.

If you want to generate Angular components with Angular-cli , you **MUST** install `@angular/cli` in npm global context.
Please follow [Angular-cli documentation](https://github.com/angular/angular-cli) if you had installed a previous version of `angular-cli`.

``` bash
npm install -g @angular/cli
```

*Install NodeJS dependencies with npm (used by Electron main process):*

``` bash
cd app/
npm install
```

Why two package.json ? This project follow [Electron Builder two package.json structure](https://www.electron.build/tutorials/two-package-structure) in order to optimize final bundle and be still able to use Angular `ng add` feature.

## To build for development

- **in a terminal window** -> npm start

Voila! You can use your Angular + Electron app in a local development environment with hot reload!

The application code is managed by `app/main.ts`. In this sample, the app runs with a simple Angular App (http://localhost:4200), and an Electron window. \
The Angular component contains an example of Electron and NodeJS native lib import. \
You can disable "Developer Tools" by commenting `win.webContents.openDevTools();` in `app/main.ts`.

## Project structure

|Folder|Description|
| ---- | ---- |
| app | Electron main process folder (NodeJS) |
| src | Electron renderer process folder (Web / Angular) |

## How to import 3rd party libraries

This sample project runs in both modes (web and electron). To make this work, **you have to import your dependencies the right way**. \

There are two kind of 3rd party libraries :
- NodeJS's one (like an ORM, Database...)
    - Used in electron's Main process (app folder) have to be added in `dependencies` of `app/package.json`
    - Used in electron's Renderer process (src folder) have to be added in `dependencies` of both `app/package.json` and `package.json (root folder)`

Please check `providers/electron.service.ts` to watch how conditional import of libraries has to be done when using NodeJS / 3rd party libraries in renderer context (i.e. Angular).

- Web's one (like bootstrap, material, tailwind...)
    - It have to be added in `dependencies` of `package.json  (root folder)`

## Add a dependency with ng-add

You may encounter some difficulties with `ng-add` because this project doesn't use the defaults `@angular-builders`. \
For example you can find [here](HOW_TO.md) how to install Angular-Material with `ng-add`.

## Browser mode

Maybe you only want to execute the application in the browser with hot reload? Just run `npm run ng:serve:web`.

## Included Commands

|Command|Description|
| ---- | ---- |
|`npm run ng:serve`| Execute the app in the browser |
|`npm run build`| Build the app. Your built files are in the /dist folder. |
|`npm run build:prod`| Build the app with Angular aot. Your built files are in the /dist folder. |
|`npm run electron:local`| Builds your application and start electron
|`npm run electron:build`| Builds your application and creates an app consumable based on your operating system |

**Your application is optimised. Only /dist folder and NodeJS dependencies are included in the final bundle.**

## You want to use a specific lib (like rxjs) in electron main thread ?

YES! You can do it! Just by importing your library in npm dependencies section of `app/package.json` with `npm install --save XXXXX`. \
It will be loaded by electron during build phase and added to your final bundle. \
Then use your library by importing it in `app/main.ts` file. Quite simple, isn't it?

## E2E Testing

E2E Test scripts can be found in `e2e` folder.

|Command|Description|
| ---- | ---- |
|`npm run e2e`| Execute end to end tests |

Note: To make it work behind a proxy, you can add this proxy exception in your terminal  
`export {no_proxy,NO_PROXY}="127.0.0.1,localhost"`

## Debug with VsCode

[VsCode](https://code.visualstudio.com/) debug configuration is available! In order to use it, you need the extension [Debugger for Chrome](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=msjsdiag.debugger-for-chrome).

Then set some breakpoints in your application's source code.

Finally from VsCode press **Ctrl+Shift+D** and select **Application Debug** and press **F5**.

Please note that Hot reload is only available in Renderer process.

## Branch & Packages version

- Angular 4 & Electron 1 : Branch [angular4](https://github.com/maximegris/angular-electron/tree/angular4)
- Angular 5 & Electron 1 : Branch [angular5](https://github.com/maximegris/angular-electron/tree/angular5)
- Angular 6 & Electron 3 : Branch [angular6](https://github.com/maximegris/angular-electron/tree/angular6)
- Angular 7 & Electron 3 : Branch [angular7](https://github.com/maximegris/angular-electron/tree/angular7)
- Angular 8 & Electron 7 : Branch [angular8](https://github.com/maximegris/angular-electron/tree/angular8)
- Angular 9 & Electron 7 : Branch [angular9](https://github.com/maximegris/angular-electron/tree/angular9)
- Angular 10 & Electron 9 : Branch [angular10](https://github.com/maximegris/angular-electron/tree/angular10)
- Angular 11 & Electron 12 : Branch [angular11](https://github.com/maximegris/angular-electron/tree/angular11)
- Angular 12 & Electron 15 : (master)

[maintained-badge]: https://img.shields.io/badge/maintained-yes-brightgreen
[license-badge]: https://img.shields.io/badge/license-MIT-blue.svg
[license]: https://github.com/maximegris/angular-electron/blob/master/LICENSE.md
[prs-badge]: https://img.shields.io/badge/PRs-welcome-red.svg
[prs]: http://makeapullrequest.com

[linux-build-badge]: https://github.com/maximegris/angular-electron/workflows/Linux%20Build/badge.svg
[linux-build]: https://github.com/maximegris/angular-electron/actions?query=workflow%3A%22Linux+Build%22
[macos-build-badge]: https://github.com/maximegris/angular-electron/workflows/MacOS%20Build/badge.svg
[macos-build]: https://github.com/maximegris/angular-electron/actions?query=workflow%3A%22MacOS+Build%22
[windows-build-badge]: https://github.com/maximegris/angular-electron/workflows/Windows%20Build/badge.svg
[windows-build]: https://github.com/maximegris/angular-electron/actions?query=workflow%3A%22Windows+Build%22

[github-watch-badge]: https://img.shields.io/github/watchers/maximegris/angular-electron.svg?style=social
[github-watch]: https://github.com/maximegris/angular-electron/watchers
[github-star-badge]: https://img.shields.io/github/stars/maximegris/angular-electron.svg?style=social
[github-star]: https://github.com/maximegris/angular-electron/stargazers
[twitter]: https://twitter.com/intent/tweet?text=Check%20out%20angular-electron!%20https://github.com/maximegris/angular-electron%20%F0%9F%91%8D
[twitter-badge]: https://img.shields.io/twitter/url/https/github.com/maximegris/angular-electron.svg?style=social

Commit message:

fix/Polyfill Node.js core modules in Webpack (5+)

README.md, after:

[![Angular Logo](https://www.vectorlogo.zone/logos/angular/angular-icon.svg)](https://angular.io/) [![Electron Logo](https://www.vectorlogo.zone/logos/electronjs/electronjs-icon.svg)](https://electronjs.org/)

![Maintained][maintained-badge]
[![Make a pull request][prs-badge]][prs]
[![License][license-badge]](LICENSE.md)

[![Linux Build][linux-build-badge]][linux-build]
[![MacOS Build][macos-build-badge]][macos-build]
[![Windows Build][windows-build-badge]][windows-build]

[![Watch on GitHub][github-watch-badge]][github-watch]
[![Star on GitHub][github-star-badge]][github-star]
[![Tweet][twitter-badge]][twitter]

# Introduction

Bootstrap and package your project with Angular 12 and Electron 15 (Typescript + SASS + Hot Reload) for creating Desktop applications.

Currently runs with:

- Angular v12.1.2
- Electron v15.13.1

With this sample, you can:

- Run your app in a local development environment with Electron & Hot reload
- Run your app in a production environment
- Package your app into an executable file for Linux, Windows & Mac

/!\ Hot reload only pertains to the renderer process. The main electron process is not able to be hot reloaded, only restarted.

/!\ Angular CLI & Electron Builder needs Node 14 or later to work correctly.

## Getting Started

*Clone this repository locally:*

``` bash
git clone https://github.com/maximegris/angular-electron.git
```

*Install dependencies with npm (used by Electron renderer process):*

``` bash
npm install
```

There is an issue with `yarn` and `node_modules` when the application is built by the packager. Please use `npm` as dependencies manager.

If you want to generate Angular components with Angular-cli , you **MUST** install `@angular/cli` in npm global context.
Please follow [Angular-cli documentation](https://github.com/angular/angular-cli) if you had installed a previous version of `angular-cli`.

``` bash
npm install -g @angular/cli
```

*Install NodeJS dependencies with npm (used by Electron main process):*

``` bash
cd app/
npm install
```

Why two package.json ? This project follow [Electron Builder two package.json structure](https://www.electron.build/tutorials/two-package-structure) in order to optimize final bundle and be still able to use Angular `ng add` feature.

## To build for development

- **in a terminal window** -> npm start

Voila! You can use your Angular + Electron app in a local development environment with hot reload!

The application code is managed by `app/main.ts`. In this sample, the app runs with a simple Angular App (http://localhost:4200), and an Electron window. \
The Angular component contains an example of Electron and NodeJS native lib import. \
You can disable "Developer Tools" by commenting `win.webContents.openDevTools();` in `app/main.ts`.

## Project structure

|Folder|Description|
| ---- | ---- |
| app | Electron main process folder (NodeJS) |
| src | Electron renderer process folder (Web / Angular) |

## How to import 3rd party libraries

This sample project runs in both modes (web and electron). To make this work, **you have to import your dependencies the right way**. \

There are two kind of 3rd party libraries :
- NodeJS's one - Uses NodeJS core module (crypto, fs, util...)
    - I suggest you add this kind of 3rd party library in `dependencies` of both `app/package.json` and `package.json (root folder)` in order to make it work in both Electron's Main process (app folder) and Electron's Renderer process (src folder).

Please check `providers/electron.service.ts` to watch how conditional import of libraries has to be done when using NodeJS / 3rd party libraries in renderer context (i.e. Angular).

- Web's one (like bootstrap, material, tailwind...)
    - It have to be added in `dependencies` of `package.json  (root folder)`

## Add a dependency with ng-add

You may encounter some difficulties with `ng-add` because this project doesn't use the defaults `@angular-builders`. \
For example you can find [here](HOW_TO.md) how to install Angular-Material with `ng-add`.

## Browser mode

Maybe you only want to execute the application in the browser with hot reload? Just run `npm run ng:serve:web`.

## Included Commands

|Command|Description|
| ---- | ---- |
|`npm run ng:serve`| Execute the app in the browser |
|`npm run build`| Build the app. Your built files are in the /dist folder. |
|`npm run build:prod`| Build the app with Angular aot. Your built files are in the /dist folder. |
|`npm run electron:local`| Builds your application and start electron
|`npm run electron:build`| Builds your application and creates an app consumable based on your operating system |

**Your application is optimised. Only /dist folder and NodeJS dependencies are included in the final bundle.**

## You want to use a specific lib (like rxjs) in electron main thread ?

YES! You can do it! Just by importing your library in npm dependencies section of `app/package.json` with `npm install --save XXXXX`. \
It will be loaded by electron during build phase and added to your final bundle. \
Then use your library by importing it in `app/main.ts` file. Quite simple, isn't it?

## E2E Testing

E2E Test scripts can be found in `e2e` folder.

|Command|Description|
| ---- | ---- |
|`npm run e2e`| Execute end to end tests |

Note: To make it work behind a proxy, you can add this proxy exception in your terminal  
`export {no_proxy,NO_PROXY}="127.0.0.1,localhost"`

## Debug with VsCode

[VsCode](https://code.visualstudio.com/) debug configuration is available! In order to use it, you need the extension [Debugger for Chrome](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=msjsdiag.debugger-for-chrome).

Then set some breakpoints in your application's source code.

Finally from VsCode press **Ctrl+Shift+D** and select **Application Debug** and press **F5**.

Please note that Hot reload is only available in Renderer process.

## Branch & Packages version

- Angular 4 & Electron 1 : Branch [angular4](https://github.com/maximegris/angular-electron/tree/angular4)
- Angular 5 & Electron 1 : Branch [angular5](https://github.com/maximegris/angular-electron/tree/angular5)
- Angular 6 & Electron 3 : Branch [angular6](https://github.com/maximegris/angular-electron/tree/angular6)
- Angular 7 & Electron 3 : Branch [angular7](https://github.com/maximegris/angular-electron/tree/angular7)
- Angular 8 & Electron 7 : Branch [angular8](https://github.com/maximegris/angular-electron/tree/angular8)
- Angular 9 & Electron 7 : Branch [angular9](https://github.com/maximegris/angular-electron/tree/angular9)
- Angular 10 & Electron 9 : Branch [angular10](https://github.com/maximegris/angular-electron/tree/angular10)
- Angular 11 & Electron 12 : Branch [angular11](https://github.com/maximegris/angular-electron/tree/angular11)
- Angular 12 & Electron 15 : (master)

[maintained-badge]: https://img.shields.io/badge/maintained-yes-brightgreen
[license-badge]: https://img.shields.io/badge/license-MIT-blue.svg
[license]: https://github.com/maximegris/angular-electron/blob/master/LICENSE.md
[prs-badge]: https://img.shields.io/badge/PRs-welcome-red.svg
[prs]: http://makeapullrequest.com

[linux-build-badge]: https://github.com/maximegris/angular-electron/workflows/Linux%20Build/badge.svg
[linux-build]: https://github.com/maximegris/angular-electron/actions?query=workflow%3A%22Linux+Build%22
[macos-build-badge]: https://github.com/maximegris/angular-electron/workflows/MacOS%20Build/badge.svg
[macos-build]: https://github.com/maximegris/angular-electron/actions?query=workflow%3A%22MacOS+Build%22
[windows-build-badge]: https://github.com/maximegris/angular-electron/workflows/Windows%20Build/badge.svg
[windows-build]: https://github.com/maximegris/angular-electron/actions?query=workflow%3A%22Windows+Build%22

[github-watch-badge]: https://img.shields.io/github/watchers/maximegris/angular-electron.svg?style=social
[github-watch]: https://github.com/maximegris/angular-electron/watchers
[github-star-badge]: https://img.shields.io/github/stars/maximegris/angular-electron.svg?style=social
[github-star]: https://github.com/maximegris/angular-electron/stargazers
[twitter]: https://twitter.com/intent/tweet?text=Check%20out%20angular-electron!%20https://github.com/maximegris/angular-electron%20%F0%9F%91%8D
[twitter-badge]: https://img.shields.io/twitter/url/https/github.com/maximegris/angular-electron.svg?style=social
